Create a python virtual environment in Ubuntu 18.04
1.- python3-venv package that provides the venv module must be installed.

    sudo apt install python3-venv

2.-Within the desired directory run the following command to create your new virtual environment:

    python3 -m venv my-project-venv

3.- To start using this virtual environment, you need to activate it by running the activate script:

    source my-project-venv/bin/activate

    Once activated, the virtual environment’s bin directory will be added at the beginning of the $PATH variable
    Also your shell’s prompt will change and it will show the name of the virtual environment you’re currently using.
    Now that the virtual environment is activated, we can start installing, upgrading, and removing packages using pip.

4.- Once you are done with your work to deactivate the environment, simply type deactivate and you will return to your normal shell.

    deactivate


Create a python virtual environment in Ubuntu 22.04
1.- Virtualenv install.
    Virtualenv is used to isolate virtual environments for python projects.We install it using pip3 by running the command below.

    sudo pip3 install virtualenv 

2.- Creating a virtual environment.
    Next, we create the virtual environment, which is done by running the command below.

    virtualenv venv 

    Point to note: You can use your preferred name in place of “venv”.

After running the command above, a directory named venv appears at the root of your project. The said directory contains python executable files.

3.- Activating virtual environment.
    All we have left to do now is activate our virtual environment. Let’s run the final command to activate our environment .

    source venv/bin/activate
    Voila! Our python virtual environment is now set up and activated.

4.- Deactivating the virtual environment.
    For one reason or the other, we might need to deactivate our environment. To do this, we run the command below.

    deactivate
    Now you have a step by step guide on how to create, activate, and deactivate a python environment.
    
